Pistoll, which
they there presented me with a mark at six score to strike therewith
but to spoil the practice I broke the cocke, whereat they were much
discontented though a chaunce supposed. From hence this kind King
conducted me to a place called Topahanocke, a kingdome upon another
river northward; the cause of this was, that the yeare before, a shippe
had beene in the River of Pamunke, who having been kindly entertained by
Powhatan their Emperour, they returned thence, and discovered the River
of Topahanocke, where being received with like kindnesse, yet he slue
the King, and tooke of his people, and they supposed I were bee, but the
people reported him a great man that was Captaine, and using mee kindly,
the next day we departed. This River of Topahanock, seemeth in breadth
not much lesse than that we dwell upon. At the mouth of the River is
a Countrey called Cuttata women, upwards is Marraugh tacum Tapohanock,
Apparnatuck, and Nantaugs tacum, at Topmanahocks, the head issuing from
many Mountains, the next night I lodged at a hunting town of Powhatam's,
and the next day arrived at Waranacomoco upon the river of Parnauncke,
where the great king is resident: by the way we passed by the top of
another little river, which is betwixt the two called Payankatank. The
most of this country though Desert, yet exceeding fertil, good timber,
most hils and in dales, in each valley a cristall spring.

“Arriving at Weramacomoco, their Emperour, proudly lying upon a Bedstead
a foote high upon tenne or twelve Mattes, richly hung with manie Chaynes
of great Pearles about his necke, and covered with a great covering of
Rahaughcums: At heade sat a woman, at his feete another, on each side
sitting upon a Matte upon the ground were raunged his chiefe men on each
side the fire, tenne in a ranke and behinde them as many yong women,
each a great Chaine of white Beades over their shoulders: their heades
painted in redde and with such a grave and Majeslicall countenance,
as drove me into admiration to see such state in a naked Salvage, bee
kindlv welcomed me with good wordes, and great Platters of sundrie
victuals, asiuring mee his friendship and my libertie within foure
dayes, bee much delighted in Opechan Conough's relation of what I had
described to him, and oft examined me upon the same. Hee asked me the
cause of our comming, I tolde him being in fight with the Spaniards our
enemie, being over powred, neare put to retreat, and by extreme weather
put to this shore, where landing at Chesipiack, the people shot us, but
at Kequoughtan they kindly used us, wee by signes demaunded fresh water,
they described us up the River was all fresh water, at Paspahegh, also
they kindly used us, our Pinnasse being leake wee were inforced to stay
to mend her, till Captain Newport my father came to conduct us away.
He demaunded why we went further with our Boate, I tolde him, in that
I would have occasion to talke of the backe Sea, that on the other side
the maine, where was salt water, my father had a childe slaine, which we
supposed Monocan his enemie, whose death we intended to revenge. After
good deliberation, hee began to describe me the countreys beyond the
Falles, with many of the rest, confirming what not only Opechancanoyes,
and an Indian which had been prisoner to Pewhatan had before tolde mee,
but some called it five days, some sixe, some eight, where the sayde
water dashed amongst many stones and rocks, each storme which caused oft
tymes the heade of the River to bee brackish: Anchanachuck he described
to bee the people that had slaine my brother, whose death hee would
revenge. Hee described also upon the same Sea, a mighty nation called
Pocoughtronack, a fierce nation that did eate men and warred with the
people of Moyaoncer, and Pataromerke, Nations upon the toppe of the
heade of the Bay, under his territories, where the yeare before they had
slain an hundred, he signified their crownes were shaven, long haire in
the necke, tied on a knot, Swords like Pollaxes.

“Beyond them he described people with short Coates, and Sleeves to the
Elbowes, that passed that way in Shippes like ours. Many Kingdomes hee
described mee to the heade of the Bay, which seemed to bee a mightie
River, issuing from mightie mountaines, betwixt the two seas; the people
clothed at Ocamahowan. He also confi